BUILD WHERE THE WORLD PLAYS
Create social games, experiences, and integrations for millions of users on Discord
Build with Discord

Discord provides a platform for building social experiences, whether you're creating apps within Discord or integrating Discord's features into your game.

Apps

Develop apps, bots, and integrations to enhance the Discord experience.

Activities

Build multiplayer games and social experiences that run directly in Discord.

Discord Social SDK

Add rich social features into your game across desktop, mobile, and console.

Apps: Extend Discord with Custom Integrations

Enhance the Discord experience with custom apps, commands, and integrations.

Apps Overview

Learn the fundamentals of building Discord apps and commands.

Build Your First Discord App

Create a bot user that plays "rock, paper, scissors" with users.

Slash Commands and Interactions

Create custom commands and interactions for your app.

Activities: Build Multiplayer Games in Discord

Use the Embedded App SDK to create real-time games and social experiences that users can launch directly inside Discord.

Activities Overview

Discover how Activities work in Discord.

Build Your First Activity

Build and test an Activity using the Embedded App SDK.

Activity Design Patterns

Best practices for multiplayer, game design, and player experience.

Discord Social SDK: Bring Social Features to Your Game

Enable rich presence, voice chat, and more to create a seamless social experience for your players and grow your game.

Discord Social SDK Overview

Explore rich presence, relationships, voice chat, and more.

Build with the Discord Social SDK

Start here for a step-by-step guide to adding social features to your game.

Design Guidelines

Best practices for integrating Discord Social SDK features into your game.

Find Support

Connect with the developer community, report issues, and stay updated with API changes.

Join the Developer Discord

Get support, API announcements, and participate in developer events.

Report Issues on GitHub

Submit API bugs, feature requests, or contribute to the documentation.

Visit the Developer Help Center

Find articles, FAQs, and reach out to Discord's developer support team.